<PASSAGE>
{https://www.englishtestsonline.com/short-advanced-reading-comprehension-test-40-with-mcqs-and-answers/	
Looking ahead from the present position where food production has kept ahead of population growth globally, but has fallen per capita in 55 (mainly African) countries, it would seem that these trends will continue. About 30 countries - most of them African - can expect serious problems unless they reduce population growth and give higher priority to agriculture and conservation. Though a warmer, wetter earth with high CO2 levels is likely to be capable of producing more food, the amounts will still be inadequate for many poorer countries. In many cases, the population projections are greater than the entire local land resources can support.}

Of all the countries in the world it is those in Africa ___.
which have taken the most drastic measures to prevent population growth
\that are most threatened by food shortages
which are environmentally most at a disadvantage
that are most conscious of the need to preserve the environment

It is argued in the passage that __.
\changes in world climate are increasing the problems of food production
agricultural development will presently put an end to global food shortages
with the exception of African countries, the global production of food is adequate and likely to continue so
the conservation of land resources is of minor importance

According to the passage, it is anticipated that __.
food production will double in the years ahead
the present situation concerning population growth and food production will soon improve
all the African countries will soon solve all their population problems
\unless serious measures are taken, the poor countries of the world will be faced with famine

<PASSAGE>
In one very long sentence, the introduction to the UN Charter expresses the ideals and the common goals of all the peoples whose governments joined together to form the UN. We the peoples of the UN determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold suffering to mankind, and to reaffirm faith in fundamental rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, and to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom, and for these ends, to practise tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours, and to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security, and to ensure, by the acceptance of principles and the institution of methods, that armed force shall not be used, save in the common interest, and to employ international machinery for the promotion of economic and social advancement of all peoples, have resolved to combine our efforts to accomplish these aims.

The first stated goal of the UN was ___
to supervise peace treaties
to establish "The United Nations".
to assist the "third world" countries
\to prevent a third world war

Under its Charter, the UN guarantees ___
never to use arms
better standards of housing
better education
\the human rights

<PASSAGE>
{http://www.freeonlinetest.in/online-exam/english/reading-comprehension/1
In the town of Agra there lived a rich businessman. But he was also quite a miser. Various people used to flock outside his house everyday hoping for some kind of generosity, but they always had to return home disappointed. He used to ward them off with false promises and then never lived up to his word. Then one day, a poet named Raidas arrived at his house and said that he wanted to read out his poems to the rich man. As the rich man was very fond of poetry, he welcomed him in with open arms.
Raidas started to recite all his poems one by one. The rich man was very pleased and especially so when he heard and especially so when he heard the poem that Raidas had written on him. In those days it was a custom for rich man and kings to show their appreciation through a reward or a gift, as that was the only means of earning that a poor poet possessed. So the rich man promised Raidas some gifts and asked him to come and collect them the next day, Raidas was pleased.
The next morning when he arrived at the house, the rich man pretended that he had never laid eyes on him before. When Raidas reminded him of his promise, he said that although Raidas was a good poet he liked the poems which were written on him and rest of the poems were very ordinary. He also said that he had earlier promised a reward to Raidas not because he was really pleased or impressed but to simply encourage him. Raidas was extremely upset, but as there was nothing that he could do, he quietly left the house. On his way home he saw his brother Kuber riding a horse. So he stopped him and asked for his help after narrating the whole incident. Kuber took him to his own house in order to come up with a plan. Alter giving it to some thought he asked Raidas to go to a friend’s house with five gold coins and request the friend to plan a dinner where the rich man would also be invited. He then narrated his plan to him.
Raidas had one trustworthy friend whose name was Mayadas. So he went up to him and told him his plan. The next day, Mayadas went to the rich man’s house and invited him for the dinner. He said that he intended to serve his guests in vessels of gold, which the guests would get to take home after the meal. The rich man was thrilled to hear this and jumped at the offer. After the rich man arrived at Mayadas house, he was surprised to see no other guests there but Raidas. Anyhow, they welcomed him in and started a polite conversation. The rich man had come on an empty stomach and so was hungrier by the minute. Finally at midnight the rich man could bear his hunger no longer and asked Mayadas to serve the food. Mayadas sounded extremely surprised when he asked him what food he was talking about. The rich man tried to remind him that he had been invited for dinner. At this point Raidas asked him for the proof of the invitation. The rich man had no answer. At the point Raidas reminded the rich man of the same treatment that he had meted out to him. The rich man realized his mistake and begged for forgiveness. He said that Raidas was a good poet and had not asked him for any reward. He himself had promised to give him some gifts and then cheated him out of them. To make up for his mistake he took out the necklace that he was wearing and gifted it to Raidas. Then they all sat down to eat a happy meal.}

Why was the rich businessman thrilled on being invited over to dinner by Mayadas?
He was thrilled to have dinner for free.
No one had ever invited him over for dinner since he was very miserly.
\Mayadas had promised to serve in gold dishes which the guests were allowed to take home with them.
Mayadas had promised many delicacies in the dinner.

Which of the following is true in context of the passage?
\It was Raidas’s brother Kuber’s plan to teach the rich businessman a lesson.
The rich businessman had to return empty stomach from Mayada’s house.
Mayadas was a trustworthy friend of the rich businessman.
All are true

What did Raidas and Mayadas do when the rich man came over for the dinner?
They were thrilled to have businessman as their guest and served him well.
They served him in gold utensils which he later took with himself.
\They did not serve him any food until he learnt a lesson on what he had done with Raidas.
All of the above

{What did the rich businessman do when Raidas went to collect his reward from him the next day?
i)  The Businessman refused to award him even though he had promised so earlier.
ii) He said that he had promised a reward only to encourage him not because he was pleased with him.
iii) He said the most of the poems written by Raidas were ordinary.}
only ii
only i and iii
only ii and iii
\All of these

Why did people flock outside the rich businessman’s house every day?
The business man was very kind-hearted and generous.
They sought an explanation from him on not keeping the promises made to them.
All of them wanted to recite poem to him as he was fond of poems.
\They would hope for some generosity from the businessman since he was rich.

How did the rich businessman react when he realized his mistake of not keeping his promise which he had made to Raidas?
He asked Raidas to come to his home the next day to take his reward.
He justified that Raidas did not deserve an award since his poems were very ordinary
He said that Raidas was lying and that he had already awarded him with a necklace.
\None of these.

Which of the following is the moral of the story?
A house divided against it cannot stand.
A bird in hand is worth two in the bush.
Never make a promise.
\Never go back on your promises.

Why was the rich business man pleased with Raidas?
Raidas had recited poems to him but had not asked for any gifts in return.
Raidas was also as miserly as him
Raidas had invited him over for dinner.
\The businessman liked his poetry, especially the one written on him.

Which of the following best describes Kuber?
Manipulative
\Clever
Miserly
Influential